OK, so welcome to the first lesson in learning about text.
So the first thing we're going to do is just do a little bit of review combined with a little bit of
new.
So we've already seen how we can create strings in code.
And we're going to review that a little bit.
But then I'm going to introduce you to one other technique for creating a string and we'll talk about
what the differences are.
Also, we've been spending a lot of time in these previous two projects, so now I'm going to encourage
you to actually follow along with me, whether you were already or not, so that you can start to build
up more practice and muscle memory on more techniques, such as just how to create a new project.
So we're going to go ahead and jump into the ad and we're going to start off by creating a new project
for ourselves.
OK.
So I don't know where you may be in the ADC, and it doesn't really matter, but we're going to start
a new project here so you can always go up to file no matter where you are.
New project.
OK.
And just as we've done before, although it may have been a really long time since you felt like you
did this, what we want to make sure that you've got Java selected here, make sure that you've got
a number here for the project SDK.
I would encourage you not to have anything lower than 16, but if you have something higher than 16,
that's perfectly fine.
And we're not selecting any of these libraries and frameworks.
And let me let me get my yeah, the window on the screen there, OK?
And then you can click next and leave everything unselected here, so I'm not selecting anything there.
And click next again.
Let's call this project.
People with a capital p.
And the location doesn't matter.
I would recommend that you probably just take the default unless you really feel comfortable that you
know what you're doing and you're not going to lose track of it and then finish.
And if you were already in another project window, it's going to ask you if you want to open up the
project in a new window or in the existing window.
I'm going to open it up in the new window just in case I want to jump back into some of the old projects
that we've been talking about.
It's up to you what you want to do here, though.
OK, so we've got our new project.
So the first thing we want to do is just review and learn a little bit new things about how to create
a string.
So the first thing we're going to do is just create a class.
And I think for right now, we're just going to create a kind of a a playground.
So this may not be like the serious class that we're going to stick with for a long time.
We just want a place to try some things out.
So we're going to right click on the source folder as our see go to new Java class.
And let's just call this class.
Learn.
String.
Stings.
You can call it whatever you want, really.
Make sure you have class highlighted there and then you can hit return.
OK, and then we'll create a new line inside of this class.
I'm going to just hold down on the shift and return to make the new line.
And then let's create a main method right away.
So public static void main SVM and then hit enter.
So this is all stuff we've done before.
All right.
So now we can, we can start playing around a little bit.
So first thing we want to do is let's just create a string the way that we have done before.
So we can create a string and we'll stored in a variable.
So we'll create a string variable and then create a string and store that string in the string variable.
So to create a variable, we first have to state what the type of the variable is.
In this case, it'll be a string.
And then we need to name the variable.
Let's call this let's do something that we haven't done before.
Let's call this fruit.
And then equals and then some text a string, right?
So we can do a quotation mark and then let's just put it a type of fruit in here, so let's say you
can put whatever you want.
I'll put Apple.
All right, and so we just created a string and we are holding a reference to the string in a variable
called fruit.
So before I explain anything here because we've done this a million times, let's create another string
in a different way, a new way.
So we'll make a new line, so we'll hold this new string in a variable as well.
So again, we're going to create a string here and let's see.
Let's let's let's do vegetable a vegetable equals and then just put.
Well, so now we're going to create another string, but we're going to do it in a different way.
So this won't be new to you, but it'll be new as far as you creating a string.
So what we're going to do here is use the new operator, which you've seen already when we've created
instances of other objects, but we haven't used the new operator to create a string before it works
the same way.
So will you type new all lowercase, then string and then parentheses?
And now inside of the parentheses?
We still just type of string.
OK, so this is a vegetable, so I don't know, let's do broccoli.
And then we need to close all of that with a semicolon.
OK.
So this brings us to the first little bit of our lesson here.
The fact that we can create a string in a couple of different ways.
So we've seen this approach many times before.
In fact, this is really the only other approach we've ever used.
And now you're seeing that you can also create a string with the new operator.
So you should be wondering, well, what's the difference?
So to explain the difference here, it does require me to get just a tiny bit technical, but it will
all be concepts that we've already talked about before.
So looking here, this Apple string that we created.
Let me remind you of the process that goes on within Java when we are creating this.
So this is an object of type string.
And what happens when Java sees this line?
It starts here, and it realizes that it needs to create a new string object in memory.
And so it asks the operating system, Windows or Linux or Mac OS to give it some memory to allocate
some memory for this new string.
And the operating system gives it an address of an area, an unused area in memory where this new string
object, Apple can reside.
And then it places this word in that new memory location.
And then you can consider that essentially the new address of this apple string in memory, that address
of that memory location essentially gets stored in this variable.
Now, when we use this variable, we can think of it most of the time as though the word apple is stored
in this variable.
But really, it's a reference to the word Apple that is stored in this variable, and that reference
is actually the memory location where this Apple object resides in memory.
OK.
But.
Most of the time, the distinction between the word Apple being in this variable versus the address
of Apple being in this variable, that distinction.
Most of the time you don't have to remain like super super aware of that.
Just in some cases it helps to just be aware of it.
And that's why you hear me usually being careful to say that we're storing a reference to this object
here rather than hearing me say, we're storing this object here.
That's the reason why I keep saying storing a reference.
I may not be 100 percent consistent, but I think I'm pretty good.
All right.
So that's what generally is happening here.
And that's generally what would happen here as well.
Now there's just one one small difference.
Let me show you this difference by creating one more line here.
I'm going to put my cursor on line three, make a new line and I'm going to make one more fruit.
Another fruit.
And I'm going to intentionally use the same fruit here.
OK.
And I'm also going to create another vegetable, and I'm going to just duplicate this line, which is
what I should have done.
The other one.
Another vegetable with a capital D and keep.
Please recall I'm using a capital v here because we do camel case.
And this is another word, but we can't have spaces in variable names, so we have to put the two words
together.
But to make it easy to read, we just capitalize the first letter of the of the subsequent words.
All right.
So we got two apples and two vegetables.
All right, so now let me explain what Java is going to do.
So like I said, Java was going to ask the operating system for some space in memory for this string,
and then it's going to put that string in there and then return the address and store that address essentially
in this variable.
Now, when we get to the next line on line for Java, we'll see.
OK?
He's asking me to allocate memory for a new string again.
However, Java is going to well with this particular string because I'm.
Because I'm asking Java to instantiate this string as what is called a string literal, that is that
I am using just quotes rather than doing the new operator.
Java is going to try to be a little bit smart.
And what it's going to do is it's going to actually look essentially through memory or through a list
that it maintains of all of the string literals that have already been allocated.
And it's going to ask itself essentially before I ask the operating system to allocate this apple string.
Let me go, look through my history and see if I've ever allocated an apple string before.
And in fact, it's going to find that, yes, it has allocated an exact match for this before.
As a string literal and again, string literal just means we're creating a string with quotes instead
of with the new string operator.
OK?
So it's going to see that it has allocated an Apple string literal before, and because it has done
that, it's not going to ask the operating system to give it some more space in memory to duplicate
another Apple object.
Another Apple string in memory.
Instead, it's just going to get the address of the Apple string that already existed in memory and
return that address and store it here.
So this fruit variable and this another fruit variable are actually going to point to the same apple
object in memory.
OK.
However, down here, these two.
Won't work like that down here.
Java is going to see that we have the new string operator and it's going to ask the operating system
to allocate space for broccoli object and then store the broccoli object, then get the memory address
and store that memory address here when it gets down here to the next one because we're using the new
string operator.
It's not going to try to be fancy at all.
Java is simply going to ask the operating system for space to allocate another string.
It doesn't care or even realize that this string is the same as this one.
It's not going to look at that at all.
It's just going to say, give me some more space for another string that happens to be broccoli.
And that's going to be a new address in memory, and a different address is going to be stored here.
So now if what I have just told you about the way that Java allocates objects in memory is true, that
would mean that if we could somehow ask Java whether these two variables are pointing to the same memory
space or not versus these two, we should get two different answers.
And just to remind you, these two, the two fruits should be pointing to the same memory address.
The two vegetables should be pointing to two different memory addresses because of the new string operator
use there.
So how can we ask Java what, whether or not to variables are pointing to the same memory address?
Well, Java has an operator called the Equals Operator, and that is not this operator.
This is actually an assignment operator, but the equals operator looks almost like this.
So let's go ahead and use it in C.
So I'm going to create a couple of new lines here and will will print this out, so we'll do an associati
and hit return.
So we get a system out that print line.
And what we're going to do is will simply put a little bit of a statement here fruit.
Space.
Equals equals, that is the equals operator, another fruit.
And notice I didn't have to type out the whole word.
Another fruit, I just started typing.
I'll do it slower here.
I just typed a couple of letters there and then it gave the idea.
It gave me the option, the options that I could choose from, and I can just choose the first one here.
All right.
So what we're really doing here is we're telling Java, we're asking Java.
Hey, Java.
Does the address that the fruit that's that the fruit variable is pointing to match the address that
the another fruit variable is pointing to?
OK.
And this operator is going to return a true or a false.
If they are pointing to the same address, then it will return true.
Otherwise, it will return false, so we will expect to see the word true come here.
So if we run this, let's see what we get.
OK, so we do indeed get true here.
All right.
So now let's try it for the vegetables.
So we'll do another.
So you t return.
And again, I'm just typing a couple of letters there.
The vegetable is what comes up first, and that's what I want.
Space equals equals.
Another vegetable.
And again, I only typed a couple of letters there, and then I hit return.
All right.
So because the new operator doesn't try to be fancy and it simply allocates new memory space every time
you use it.
That would mean that these two vegetables should be pointing at different addresses.
And so I would expect this line will return false.
Let's run it and see.
So we should end up with the word true first for Line eight and then for Line nine, we should have
a false.
Let's run this and see.
And indeed, that's exactly what we get.
True and false.
So that just confirms the difference between instantiating a string using a string literal versus instantiating
a string using the new operator.
And I think that's going to wrap up this lesson.
We have many, many, many, many more to to get into.
So I'll see you in the next one.